docs: revisions to operations subsection (#2800)
MystenLabs/walrus: docs/content/design/operations-off-chain.mdx

---

Walrus operations primarily occur off-chain on storage nodes, though they interact with the [Sui blockchain](https://docs.sui.io/) for [resource lifecycle management](/design/operations-sui.mdx). This page describes the complete off-chain operations for writing, reading, and managing blobs.

## Write operations

![Write paths of Walrus](./images/WriteFlow.png)

### Acquire storage resource

You acquire a storage resource of appropriate size and duration on-chain, either by directly buying it from the Walrus system object or a secondary market. You can split, merge, and transfer owned storage resources.

### Encode and compute blob ID

When you want to store a blob, you first apply erasure coding to the blob, and then compute the blob ID from the encoded data. You can then perform the remaining write flow steps yourself, or use a publisher to perform the steps on your behalf.

### Register blob ID

You interact with Sui to update a storage resource to register the blob ID with the desired size and lifetime. This emits an event that storage nodes receive, and you continue with the upload after event confirmation.

### Store slivers

> You send the blob metadata to all storage nodes, and send each of the blob slivers to the storage node that currently manages the corresponding shard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send the blob metadata to all storage nodes. Each of the blob slivers are sent to the storage node that currently manages the corresponding shard.
```

### Availability certificate

A storage node managing a shard receives a sliver and checks it against the blob ID. It also checks that there is a blob resource with the blob ID that is authorized to store a blob. If correct, the storage node then signs a statement that it holds the sliver and returns it to you. You then put together the signatures returned from storage nodes into an availability certificate.

### Certify blob ID

> You submit an availability certificate to the chain. When the certificate is verified on-chain, an availability event for the blob ID is emitted, and all other storage nodes seek to download any missing shards for the blob ID. This event emitted by Sui is the [point of availability (PoA)](/design/properties.mdx) for the blob ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Submit an availability certificate to the chain. When the certificate is verified on-chain, an availability event for the blob ID is emitted, and all other storage nodes seek to download any missing shards for the blob ID. This event emitted by Sui is the [point of availability (PoA)](/design/properties.mdx) for the blob ID.
```

## Read operations

Reading blobs from Walrus can occur directly or through aggregators and caches. The operations are identical whether performed by end users, aggregators, or caches experiencing cache misses. In practice, most reads occur through caches for frequently accessed (hot) blobs and do not require requests to storage nodes.

The read flow consists of the following steps:
1. You obtain the metadata for the blob ID from any storage node, and authenticate it using the blob ID.
2. You then send a request to the storage nodes for the shards corresponding to the blob ID and wait for \(f+1\) responses. Send sufficient requests in parallel to ensure low latency for reads.
3. You authenticate the slivers returned with the blob ID, reconstruct the blob, and decide whether the contents are valid or inconsistent.

> 4. Optionally, for a cache, the result is cached and can be served without reconstruction until it is evicted from the cache. Requests for the blob to the cache return the blob contents or an inconsistency proof.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Obtain the metadata for the blob ID from any storage node and authenticate it using the blob ID.
2. Send a request to the storage nodes for the shards corresponding to the blob ID and wait for \(f+1\) responses. Send sufficient requests in parallel to ensure low latency for reads.
3. Authenticate the slivers returned with the blob ID, reconstruct the blob, and decide whether the contents are valid or inconsistent.
4. Optionally, the result is cached and can be served without reconstruction until it is evicted from the cache. Requests to the cache for the blob return the blob contents or an inconsistency proof.
```

## Refresh availability

Because no blob content is involved, refresh operations are conducted entirely through the Sui protocol. To extend blob availability, you provide an appropriate on-chain storage resource. Upon success, storage nodes receive an emitted event to extend the storage duration for each sliver.

## Inconsistency handling

After the PoA, a correct storage node attempting to reconstruct a sliver might fail if blob encoding was incorrect. In this case, the node can extract an inconsistency proof for the blob ID. It then uses the proof to create an inconsistency certificate and uploads it on-chain.

The flow is as follows:
1. A storage node fails to reconstruct a sliver, and instead computes an inconsistency proof.
2. The storage node sends the blob ID and inconsistency proof to all storage nodes of the Walrus epoch. The storage nodes verify the proof and sign it.

> 3. The storage node that found the inconsistency aggregates the signatures into an inconsistency certificate and sends it to the Walrus smart contract, which verifies it and emits an inconsistent resource event.

Reviewer: Walrus smart contract, or Sui smart contract? Walrus doesn't have a programmability layer from my understanding?

Author: oh oops good catch
